1. Socket: it is the endpoint of an connetion
           when we say two devices are connected there endpoints or thier sockets are connected

           -> generally for a machine its socket is IP+ Port
           -> one single machine can have multiple sockets

#Protocol : set of rules which need to be followed to establish a successful connection

2. TCP- Transmission Control Protocol:-
   (i)- Used for most internet-based communications, such as web browsing, file uploads/downloads, or sending emails.
   (ii)_Reliable: Ensures data arrives correctly and in the right order (detects and corrects errors).
   (iii) -Connection-oriented: A stable connection is established before data transfer begins.
   (iv)Slower compared to UDP due to error checking and acknowledgment mechanisms.

3. UDP - User datagram Protocol
->Faster but less reliable — packets can be lost or arrive out of order.
->Connectionless: No formal connection setup; data is sent without verifying receipt.
->Ideal for real-time applications where speed matters more than perfect accuracy — e.g.:
   Video or voice calls, Online gaming ,Live streaming

4. WebRTC:-   [Web Real-Time Communication]

#WebRTC (Web Real-Time Communication) is a technology that enables Web applications and sites to capture and optionally stream audio and/or video media,
as well as to exchange arbitrary data between browsers without requiring an intermediary

(i)- it is used where real-time data transfer is needed eg. chat,video calls
(ii)- it is primarily based on UDP
(iii)- it is an open source protocol 
(iv)- its Bi-Directional : sending and recieving both can be done through both the endpoints
(v)- eleminate need of thirdy part apps

#Video call without WebRTC:-
(i) numerous clients(devices) are get connected to common server through the app
(ii)- clients dont know each others address but they know how servers address(port), so each client will send its video(some data)
      to the server and now server will forward thie data to the recieptent......(and this whole process will be bidirectionsal)
(iii)- this method is highly reliable but Slower

#Video call with WebRTC:-
(i)- After a certain point WebRtc establishes a direct connection btw two points,throufh which they can communicate
(ii)- this method is Lag free.
(iii)- so this will be preferred

5. Work flow 
# WebRtc works in 4 diff stages:-  (diff protocols /rules are folowed in each stage)
5.1) Signalling:-
(i)  it have a signalling server which works on  a protocol called SDP (session description protocol)
(ii)- it is responsible for sharing info of two devices between them  (info means socket address i.e the IP address)

5.2 - Connecting
(i)- it works on ICE protocol
(ii)- as now both the client have each others endpoint address , they establish connection in this stage

5.3 Securing:-
(i)- they work on DLTS and SRTP protocols
(ii)- this stage is used to secure the established connection
(iii)- it involves Encryption, security certification


5.4 Communicating:-
(i)-uses RTP and SCTP protocol.
(ii)- data transfer begins


6. USING WebRTC:-
(i) it is already inbulit in the browsers in form of API's
    -> RtcPeerChannel:  The RTCPeerConnection interface represents a WebRTC connection between the local computer and a remote peer. 
                        It provides methods to connect to a remote peer, maintain and monitor the connection, and close the connection once it's no longer needed.
    -> MediaStream: it is used to capture videos from our devices using the camera
    -> RtcDataChannel:   The RTCDataChannel interface represents a network channel which can be used for bidirectional peer-to-peer transfers of arbitrary data. 

7. WebRTC Architecture:-   [ a recommended format how we should use WebRTC]

(i)- P2P  (Peer to Peer):-
   -> all the clients(devices connected) share data directly with each other.
   -> now as in this case there will be large number of seprare communication channels, so resouce consumetion per pc will be high  [but all devices have a fixed bandwidth,cpu,memory]
   -> no suited in case of large number of clients
   ->sending to n-1 nodes , recieving form n-1 one nodes

(ii)- SFU  [selective Forwarding Unit]:-
     -> we add a 'server' which acts as the cental node of the ntw.
     -> it recives data from all the nodes and frowards it to the supposed recieptent.
     -> now each client is req. to send its data once only (to the central node), thus number of sending channel reduces
     -> now if resources of any one client is limited then server will adjust the packets(like only audio in a video call),  
     -> in this architecture client is slightly less loaded, server is heavilty loaded
     -> sneding to 1, recieving from n-1
(iii)- MCU [Multi Point Control Unit]
      -> in case of sfu the server maintains n number of data channels with the client to send data wehere n is the number of clients who wanted to send data to the reciever
         but in case of MCU, server combines all the channels and then send it to the recieptent , so in total each client ahve just two channels  (one for sending , one recieving)
      ->he server bears heavy CPU usage (due to decoding, mixing, re-encoding).
      -> eg webinars  (large number of recievers)

